it is extraordinary that  in 2022  joe biden  published  a strategy  for world domination let's call it what  it is okay  joe biden had a strategy  for world domination and it was  published as a pdf on the internet for  all to see for these enemies in china to  see for zamasu russia to see four  journalists and members of the general  public to see now generally  when countries have a strategy for the  domination of a particular region  or domination of a continent or  domination of the whole world they will  not actually publish it most periods in  the history of the united states of  america the president has not published  his grand strategy if he had one  and sometimes presidents united states  have engaged in before with really no  strategy at all  hmm  what was  donald trump's strategy in iran  what was donald trump's strategy in  afghanistan what was donald trump's  strategy for israel now if you get  outside of that what was donald trump's  strategy for the future of north africa  i mean like  you can i can imagine there are probably  these you know foreign policy wonks  sitting there in the state department  sitting there in the nsa sitting there  at the cia sitting there at the pentagon  they're actively involved in ongoing  wars in north africa during the four  years of the trump presidency like  uh  what what's this guy gonna do next what  is the strategy here  generally speaking  a strategy of this kind  will be  secret it will be covert it will be  implicit in the actions of a country so  i don't go into this at great length  but you may or may not know  that right now  france is engaged in quite a number of  ongoing wars in north africa quite a few  different offensives quite a few  different armed interventions  in north africa that france is engaged  in  what is france's  strategy  perhaps an exam it's an exaggeration to  say nobody knows all right but there  isn't a simple pdf you can download  that's going to tell you what that  strategy is to a very large extent it is  secret now i think the british  government is another very good example  of this can anyone make a list of how  many war and insurgencies ongoing around  the world the british government is  engaged and there's there's no strategy  now  so we're looking at here the the  prospect of or the reality of  joe biden stating openly  what  no other president would say openly or  you can regard this as a kind of  quote-unquote  false flag operation i i know it's an  overused term i know it's associated  with conspiracy theorists but you know  what if in this document  joe biden is telling you the exact  opposite of what he's actually going to  do  have you heard of this guy vladimir  putin have heard about this  in case you think false flag operations  don't work in case you think  misinformation put out by governments  about military operations don't work  this guy vladimir putin maybe you've  heard him  he managed to deceive the whole world  into thinking he was just having  peaceful military exercises right next  to the border of ukraine right right up  until the day he invaded  now  joe biden didn't believe it joe biden  was the one voice saying no  this this is an armed invasion of  ukraine these are preparations for this  is war materiel for these are munitions  for ordinance for  an upcoming imminent invasion of ukraine  the director of the united nations  didn't believe joe biden right up until  the day of the invasion you had the  [ __ ] director of the united states no  no no no no come on come on these are  just military exercises listen to putin  believe putin it's  perfectly credible he's having these  peaceful exercises right on the  ukrainian board there's no come on  there's nothing to be concerned about  that's a professional  career politician  foreign policy expert who was fooled who  was taken in by this right until the  troops  crossed the line right until the red hot  bullets were ready to fly  okay he wasn't the only one  right  prime minister of france oh sorry i  should say president of france the prime  minister of germany the leaders  of i think every single european country  did not take joe biden's warning  seriously and it wasn't even a warning  joe biden just stated as a matter of  fact again and again and again within  the next few weeks  the vladimir putin is going to invade  history from memory he said it for about  a month and a half it wasn't you know  but he was saying within a few weeks he  didn't know exactly the date but he said  yes you know before we get to the middle  of march there's going to be this  invasion nobody wanted to hear it so if  you think if you think lying  is not a viable strategy we've just  lived through seeing how incredibly  effective how devastating in times of  both peace and war a simple lie  can be  to your enemies  now you know  great comment from the audience do you  want to give me what kiss says quote  there is no exercise or maneuver for  which you need 200 000 troops  well  i just say briefly without getting near  this in great detail you know to me the  great joke is that the the tangible  evidence joe biden was working with is  simply satellite photography to some  extent we still use airplanes rather  than satellites  it's really it's the same thing in terms  of looking at it on a table whether the  photograph was taken by an airplane or a  satellite it's aerial star it's overhead  photography so it's very different from  relying on a handwritten note from a spy  200 years ago you have someone who's  infiltrated the enemy's side and who's  telling you look this is what people are  talking about in this army camp  interpreting rumor and innuendo you're  looking at a photograph of war material  you're looking at exactly where it's  being transported to and where it's  being transported from it's generally  what you're talking about very palpable  hard facts now those facts are still  open to interpretation  but yes it is just ludicrous it is just  laughable that joel biden was the one  lone voice of reason  leading up to russia's invasion of  ukraine now all evidence to this point  indicates  that xi jinping that the elite level of  the chinese communist party that they  were also fooled that they did not know  about this so now  maybe in the next you know maybe the  next 10 years or something more  information will come out indicating  that no there actually was a knowledge  at the elite level the chinese  government about what china was going to  do next but at this time all evidence  is that the government of china did not  know about and did not agree to  supporting uh putin shall we say  escalating the conflict in ukraine  because the conflict had already existed  since 2014. it wasn't really a new war  or new invasion but it was certainly a  sudden  uh escalation of hostility so  if you think about the foreign policy  implications of putin managing to cement  this strategic agreement with china  which is partly an economic agreement  it's partly a trade agreement it's  probably an investment agreement like  it's there were many facets to the  cooperation between russia and china he  managed to lock that down and then go  shake hands with xi jinping in beijing  at the olympics  and then days later  you know go to war you think lying isn't  effective in politics  so look we have two possibilities here  you know  one is that joe biden has put his cards  on the table for everyone to see exactly  what his strategy is frankly for world  domination  and another is that this is a lie and  actually what joe biden is going to do  is the exact opposite what camel harris  is going to do is the exact opposite is  that this is an attempt to manipulate  various world leaders now  i don't think it was intentional that  this document was buried  by the news about the war in ukraine  like i don't think you know they  intentionally released at a time when it  would be ignored by the mainstream media  i think this was published as soon as  they could  agree on all the details and publish it  it would have made sense for it to be  published say a few months earlier even  just one month earlier it would have  made more of an impact but i can tell  you  melissa and i we've listened to the  communist party of china's response to  this  oh this had a big impact in china and i  certainly you know elite level of  government in india other countries in  asia will have received this message and  they will be taking it very very  seriously and how they will respond to  it one way or another  time will tell  joe biden has said  again and again  from alpha to omega  that he will not in any way militarily  engage  the russians  that could also be a lie  right he's capable of doing the same  kind of trickery  putin's been doing i just keep that in  mind  all right joe biden could say there's no  way he's going to escalate this conflict  there's no way he's going to escalate  this conflict  and then one day he pushes the buttons  and  missiles launched at a silos god  and i just want to emphasize  asymmetrical warfare  is an option on the table  various things will come to mind when i  say asymmetrical warfare for you  probably the first image that comes to  mind if you're into politics if you're  into you know political science everyone  say probably the first damage comes to  mind is responding through guerrilla  warfare or covert ops that's not the  only kind of asymmetrical warfare there  is you can respond to  russia invading ukraine  by instead conquering belarus that's  asymmetrical you don't fight on the same  front you don't right  it's an option you can say oh well you  know we support the democratically  elected government of belarus that was  snuffed out and kicked out by the  current corrupt regime i don't remember  that that's that's hasn't been in the  news for a few months now but there was  this tear-jerking headline-grabbing  story about belarusian democracy being  choked out of existence by the horrible  government they've got there well it's  not too late to have a military  intervention in belarus in the name of  democracy right joe biden can do that  tomorrow he can do it anytime and he can  wait until  public horror at what russia is doing in  ukraine is so great  that nobody is going to mind if he even  uses nuclear war nuclear arms to settle  this like he can wait until it reaches a  point  you can lie this is politics it's  politics baby you can you know you want  to talk about asymmetrical warfare  russia has a number of weaknesses  on their frontier  really great asymmetrical response joe  biden could do right now  mongolia  mongolia  has an enormous  undefended border with russia there is  no buffer state  mongolia has an enormous undefeated  border  with the people's republic of china with  communist china  mongolia has for years  wanted to be in a military alliance with  both japan and the united states that  want to be a democracy on the  pro-democracy team  because america was in the totally  hypocritical position of trying to  maintain a military alliance with china  a strategic alliance with china again in  large part economic america has always  stepped back and to my knowledge they've  always told japan to step back i  remember abe shinzo  uh  briefly talked about  getting into an alliance with mongolia  and right away everyone including most  obviously most loudly china said no no  no no  if you  if you set foot in mongolia  there will be hell to pay well right now  would be a great time for america to  sign a treaty with mongolia and if you  had just one detachment of the u.s  marine corps in mongolia it's your  purely symbolic presence setting up a  tiny base with a little  airplane landing strip doing training  exercises for the mongolian military  that would still be sufficient to say  look guys when you color in the map  this country is on the american side and  guess what  we can fill it up with missiles that you  know we can fill it up with whatever we  want  this would be a thorn in the side of  russia and a thorn the side of communist  china simultaneously and this will cost  america nothing i'm sorry you know you  wasted trillions on afghanistan military  alliance with  mongolia  cost you a few bucks this would be a  bargain basement  devastating move this is asymmetrical  warfare  and what are you going to say i mean  again for the american people come and  get it what do you want you want to  conquer mongolia you want to do that too  really bro  okay so now you want to extend  war in ukraine to being a war for the  conquest of uh mongolia  and if so you can imagine how that would  escalate because in case you didn't know  actually deep down inside russia and  china  hate each other  deeply  and if russia is invading mongolia the  chinese are going to respond by saying  no you don't and they're going to try to  invade mongolia also you will seriously  that would be the end of the russian  chinese alliance that would be the end  of it they would immediately become  bitter blood enemies in case you didn't  know from china's perspective  mongolia has the same status as taiwan  it used to be a part of china and now  it's a breakaway state from the chinese  the elite level the chinese communist  party that is their perspective and by  the way that's not totally fictional i  mean historically you can get you know  it's not you know it's not it's not as  ridiculous as i don't know it's not as  ridiculous as claiming that you know  italy used to be a borough of new york  city or something there are real  historical reasons for why the chinese  would would feel that way and see it  though okay asymmetrical warfare all  right just give you a third example  what country  is the closest  to japan  when you think about japan's borders  what is the closest  foreign country  to japan many of you will say uh korea  some of you might think taiwan get down  to those funny islands in the south some  of you might think the philippines oh  gee what's what's the closest and  obviously some people might guess  mainland china  and all of those guesses would be wrong  the country with the closest  international frontier to japan  is russia  and they are at war  right now literally  russia and japan never signed a peace  treaty they still have disputed  territories the border was never settled  okay there is still on paper an ongoing  war  between russia and japan that's a  weakness that's a weakness america can  exploit  right asymmetrical war oh you invade  ukraine  well we have  a legal pretext  to invade and conquer a portion of  siberia basically however you want to  put it we can conquer sackland island we  can conquer the four  smaller islands the japanese call them  the kuril islands and say the greater  karafuto area we can we can cut off a  piece of russia right  now if you're a cheapskate  let's say america doesn't even bother  occupying it  all right you could just  set off missiles and blow up the oil  rigs  devastating to russia you just destroy  the roads with missile devastation you  destroy the electricity though  right the point is if you want to do it  cheap if you want to do it low cost  there are options and you can oh oh i'm  sorry we never recognized this as  russian territory we're not invading  russia it's asymmetrical warfare you  know the same way russia  refused to recognize that crimea is  legally a part of ukraine we didn't  recognize this [ __ ] island north of  japan  as a legitimate part of russian  territory and guess what  you guys never signed a treaty at the  end of world war ii that would make it a  legitimate part of russia rather than  japan so  okay asymmetrical warfare  and if you want to you can use nukes in  any of these conflicts  all right  uh jewelbot got options  [Laughter]  um  all right i'm going to close out the  part of the video we're talking about  ukraine in a sense this is only an  allegory for what i really want to get  into which is joe biden's secret  strategy  for world domination  the good and the bad of it  it's really important that you don't  demonize  the opposite side  in politics  if the other side that you're struggling  against  were entirely evil  it would be easy to overcome  recognizing that your opponents  are a mix of good and evil recognizing  that the strategy you disagree with has  advantages as well as disadvantages is  crucial to having a mature nuanced  useful  political mindset all right if you want  to change the world you have to start  with a profound acceptance  that what the other side is offering  is in some ways good  even if what you are preoccupied with  is  the evil all right  you know when you're up against an enemy  that is entirely evil  or if you think of them as entirely evil  then there is no onus upon you to  actually come up with a better idea with  a better model for how to run a country  or a better way to organize the  continent you're talking about whatever  the geopolitical situation is  you know  when you recognize hmm like i hate these  guys these people are my enemy but some  things they they're doing really work  like there's some things that are  effective there's some things that are  good about their regime their republic  their their empire whatever it is were  criticized you know hmm  as soon as you recognize that now  there's an onus on you  to do  better  so okay well what's my idea for how this  country should be  ruled or how this region should be  governed whatever it is what's my idea  that's really better than what they've  already got  george w bush was an incredibly stupid  man  if you're trying to make a list of the  stupidest presidents of the united  states in history i know today  everyone's going to say it's donald  trump  there's an argument george w bush was  really stupider than donald trump but  it's it's tough it's tough race to the  bottom the bottom ten stupidest  presidents in his united states some of  the early guys some of the guys who were  alive you know the founding fathers some  of those guys were really stupid too  when you when you get into this  all right  um  george w bush had the mentality that  saddam hussein was a terrible dictator  that his government was a terrible  regime that it was all evil  and that therefore the only thing he  needed to do was to liberate these  people from the evil regime and whatever  political arrangements ensued would be  better  a nuanced mature  perspective an analysis that's actually  useful  has to begin by recognizing there are  some things saddam hussein is doing  right  there are some ways in which his regime  works there are some ways in which it's  good and we have to really understand  that because if we destroy that regime  if we just oppose it effectively right  then you're pulling out those linchpins  i shouldn't usually just clothes pins if  you imagine laundry hanging in the wind  right you have laundry and you're  pulling out some clothespins here there  are some things that hold this society  together and you're removing them and  you better have something better to  replace this you better be able to rush  out and put in your own clothes there  was none of this mentality there was  there was no mature nuanced  understanding on george w bush's side  right this was just the idiocy of  thinking you could destroy the saddam  hussein regime and then whatever  eventuated really with no effort on the  american side at all would be better  right now again saddam hussein terrible  person terrible regime like  but i think you can see why it's really  important to appreciate what those  regimes are doing right so obviously one  strength of the saddam hussein regime is  that it completely suppressed  the conflict between sunni and shiite  within iraq  right and as soon as you pulled out  those clothespins you basically got a  low-level civil war for the extent to  which the shini spread me the sunni or  the shiite side would control the  capital city you know the region of our  region it's a little different it's not  the same up in kurdistan the kurdish  area but generally we're talking about  the most important parts  of iraq there was a struggle partly a  political struggle but partly an armed  struggle  for who was going to control the fate of  the country would it be sunni or shiite  right now and that involves iran iran  and its proxy armies and its support for  one side or the other another example  would be the oil industry which is kind  of important in iraq you know saddam was  saying he had effective control over the  oil industry as soon as the americans  got involved  in effect nobody had control over the  olympia industry it devolved into a kind  of gangsterism or warlordism all right  kind of okay kind of a big deal  and i've said this in in earlier videos  you can  there's a real option a real option i  think explored in in the donald trump  presidency you know nothing came of it  there is an option to embrace the putin  regime  and say okay some things about this are  evil  some things about this  could work out for the best long-term  um i would compare that to  here's  here's a topical comparison for you  who who was ruling spain during world  war ii  what was the government of spain  during world war ii hmm  yeah it was a fascist dictatorship that  was also america's ally  and that continued  after  world war ii  right now some of you may not believe me  you might think oh no that's not true  spain was ruled by the phalanges regime  there's there's some political science  vocabulary and they were allied with the  nazis  if you look into it  if you do the reading know  in fact you know from their perspective  their their alliance secret alliance  was with the british  and then indirectly from the british to  the americans you know because the  british americans were on the same side  throughout world war ii but but the  british began the war much earlier  the united states enters world war two  much later than england so from their  perspective and from the perspective of  the the dictator himself franco that was  the strategic  alliance he made and he very much  assumed spain was arming itself to fight  against the germans  uh now i know  surface level that's not obvious in  world war ii but that is what really  happened  i've researched it never an essay about  it and that is what explains the strange  fact that after world war ii ends  america is in no way asking for  spain to make a transition to democracy  there's no punishment put on spain this  way there's no forcing them to  you know  no no forcing to change government in  the way that america forced italy to  change its government right  the united states and western powers  they basically forced italy to become a  a normal democracy what do you want to  say a parliamentary style democracy this  didn't happen okay  there is a completely machiavellian  perspective to be had that you can  embrace  russia 100  and i think i've already outlined for  you there's also a completely  machiavellian perspective you say hey  this is our opportunity to go into  mongolia  heavy  this is our opportunity to go into  northern japan heavy even  this is our opportunity  to stand up in front of the japanese  people stand up in front of the japanese  parliament the diet and say japan  rip up your constitution and write a new  one  you guys committed to never having an  army ever again  well those days are passed you need an  army now you need an army forever you  need to be prepared to go to war with  russia your closest neighbor a country  you're still at war with you still have  a border dispute with some results  i mean america you know saying this  could be the opportunity  to re-arm to re-militarize japan as  never before in a context where that  makes sense this can be the opportunity  for joe biden or camel harris to go to  berlin  and say people of germany  you have a pacifist constitution you  have basically an anti-military  constitution not quite as extreme as  japan's commitment to not having any  army ever again  well guess what those days are over  all right you need to write an amendment  to your constitution you need to have a  real army that's capable of real  military intervention not this [ __ ]  you're doing right now with with ukraine  you need to be ready to fight the  russians now and forever this is a  turning point in history because these  are you know like  they're both machiavellian embracing  russia would be machiavellian  opposing russian mankind i heard a  brilliant insight from  a real specialist in israel an israeli  guy who used to be uh in military  intelligence and now he's a journalist  but this is just the kind of insight  that true experts have  that an outsider an amateur wouldn't  have  it's it's not really secret but who else  would know this he said oh no what  israel is doing right now is they're  taking advantage  of  basically the  russia's new status as a pariah nation  they're taking advantage of it to  massively expand israeli operations  within syria this is really covert ops  it's really military policy that that  until now or for several years until now  uh israel had  remained somewhat aloof and distant from  syria because the russian army was there  and the attitude was okay we don't want  to fight against the russians we don't  want to cause friction with russia we  want to kind of respect russia's sphere  of influence and russia is doing its  thing to stabilize the region and and  the conflict right but now  israel  has to change that oh okay now we can go  in and we can  ultimately i'm sorry it's involves  killing people  now they have the attitude they can kill  as many russians as they need to to  bring about their own policy goals in in  syria so that's that's the kind of  change that see it's asymmetrical  israel is not going to respond to this  by deploying tanks to the donbass in  ukraine israel is not going to respond  to this by directly sending in  paratroopers to kiev but there are other  fronts for the russian empire that are  that are very much  um so guys i'm now going to pause that's  kind of the end of the ukraine russia  portion of this they might get mentioned  but we're going to move on to  joe biden's grand strategy for planet  earth  planet america  this is a great time to make a comment  if you want me to actually read and  respond to it it's also a great time to  hit the thumbs up button uh  we have 39 people in the audience i  appreciate you being here there's no  advanced warning this is a saturday  thank you for taking the time to think  about politics think about the future of  democracy think about ongoing wars and  some hypothetical wars soon to come i  mean really we've gone back into an era  of cold war politics and although we've  been talking so much about russia the  other great cold war right now is china  and the difference is in 2022 russia and  china are on the same side whereas back  in 1971 and 1972  russia and china were bitter enemies  they were on opposite sides of the cold  war some of you may not know that some  of you may be tired of hearing me say it  um but anyway we've got 39 people in the  audience if we could have 39 thumbs up  that'll be great it will help more  people join the conversation anyone's  welcome to comment i think you have to  subscribe to the channel for 10 minutes  so if it's your first time ever seeing  this channel you can hit subscribe and  actually before we talk for 10 minutes  you can you can join it and make a big  comment also so babe melissa my  girlfriend is just off camera here is it  it's a good moment for the the audience  to say whatever's on their mind is there  anything on your mind you want to chat  with  it is an exhaustive and exhausting  conversation  it's all right there's no no obligation  yeah  i mean the other the other big  overarching topic here is just the  the absence of democracy in american  foreign policy um  i made a very brief video a couple days  okay sorry  um  do  you mentioned another cold war this is  now a new  do you really think that there was a  stop to the cold war this this kind of  political  yes  yeah good question my answer is is  actually yes i think there was a sincere  period of american russian cooperation  and  you could say that it ended the moment  putin came into power but i would say it  probably ended a couple years after  putin came into power because when putin  first  came into power there was still some  western um  optimism about vladimir putin i think  you can actually  see  western optimism about russia  displayed graphically if you look up the  exchange rate of the russian ruble to  the u.s dollar  and decade by decade year by year how  the value of the russian ruble keeps  declining and by the way it just  declined dramatically again so i quote  that you i don't have the numbers  memorized okay so at this point you know  one u.s dollar is worth 40 russian  rubles and then things get worse and  it's 60 russian removal then it's 80  russian rules and now one u.s dollar  will buy you more than 100 russian  rubles it is it is just a coincidence  um  but western optimism western really here  meaning america plus western europe  optimism about russia it's got more  s'mores but no i i think the reason why  i'd say that so confident was just that  i was alive at that time  um  you know prior to vladimir putin taking  over the the government of russia there  was real optimism that you know that  russia would become a normal country you  know that this was something and uh sir  another sign of that i remember this  around say 1995 western universities  used to be full of russian people coming  over to study in canada in the united  states and so on as never before i do  not know how many americans want to  study in russia there was this brief  period when the russian  secret archives including their  intelligence archives militaries were  open to western scholars western  researchers and historians going and  looking at what had been secret just a  few years before about how communism  actually worked and secret killings they  could have so no there was i think a  legitimate period of of positivity when  you could say the cold war was over  and  look  i used to live in laos i used to live in  cambodia  you know it would have been in places  like that where you felt most  dramatically the end of that cold war  because like up until a certain point  there was a struggle between the  russians and the americans for who would  influence these countries the most  and then it just stopped you know  so that i mean i just say if you're in  these peripheral spaces that had been  contested in the cold war that in the  cold war people were struggling to  influence there you would have felt most  dramatically when it when it stopped  um  yeah and i think i think it can be asked  you know  yeah you know now if you live in any of  those places including athens greece  what you're aware of is very much the  cold war between china and the western  world to what extent does china control  thailand to what extent does china  control cambodia allows et cetera but  even to what extent does china control  the perez harbor  in greece compared to what that that's  the major conflict but yeah there's a  little bit with russia too there's a  little bit of that kind of tension i  mean so this is what we're getting into  now we're moving beyond the ukraine  front lines to get into uh  you know get into  really global domination um the whole  the whole rest of the world  um  [Music]  i was just gonna mention the other big  theme here is the question to what  extent  uh there's any democracy at all when it  comes to foreign policy and elite level  uh geopolitics so you want to see that  yeah well i was just thinking  you've been talking about this madman  leader and a lot of people are calling  putin  yes  referring to him as a madman uh  it's  it's just really true that when we were  living through the trump presidency i  think everybody was on the edge of their  seat or kind of biting their nails what  terrible decision is donald trump going  to be in charge of um and it turns out  that you know um  more of the uh  maybe it's because i'm living through it  right now but it does seem to me that  currently this is this is taking hold of  people in a way that nothing during the  trump presidency did yeah this invasion  of ukraine is is really uh capturing  people's attention um more so than  trump's  brief uh  yes right right right um so you know  it's it's just  it's just you know still it's it wants  to emphasize that we have no democratic  process in this like right we do not  have a choice in choosing whether we  will uh engage in a military conflict so  let me give some smaller examples that  are ongoing right now like today this  week  so it has been proposed  that america could be  in a  strategic partnership with a military  alliance with finland  why don't you have a [ __ ] vote on  that united  it is states so i've set out for you  guys a number of options you know  asymmetrical warfare that's that's  another way you can put nuclear missiles  in finland if you want to fill up fill  up finland with missile silos you know  canada still is we still have missiles  in canada that are aimed at russia from  the cold war we still got them  how many is the secret we don't know  um but you know obviously finland is  more strategically located if you want  again put one detachment of the us  marine corps in finland okay  isn't that a decision the american  people  could make  you know and  i think it would be very interesting to  put it to a direct vote a direct  referendum in the united states america  do you want to accept mongolia  a treaty with mongolia a partnership  with mongolia and again it's not a war  like right now mongolia doesn't have a  war but it entails that if in future  mongolia has certain kinds of problems  you're gonna you're gonna back up  mongolia and a lot of people in america  they've barely heard of mongolia they've  heard of it in jokes on south park the  tv show south park used to make a lot of  jokes about mongolia building the city  wall to keep up the mongolians so you  know some of you know what i'm talking  about but like mongolia  americans would wake up and think about  oh okay this is a decision to make and  you know what if americans said no if  americans made the decision you know  what mongolia doesn't deserve our  protection they don't deserve to be in  this alliance with us or what have you  then later on they would be able to  think about reflect on the consequences  of that you know they'd be able to hear  their political leaders saying like you  know maybe just a few years down the  road the the conflict with china is  getting worse and there were people in  the senate or people in congress  pointing the finger and saying look  you guys made the wrong decision about  mongolia i told you this was a crucial  strategic partnership and we should we  should put boots on the ground in  mongolia and now look you know and  american people would be involved you  know you know something involved  i'm not saying these people are  brilliant i'm not saying they're  intelligent not you know  but you'd start to get an escalating  level of political education escalating  level of political involvement and a  moral commitment to dealing with the  outcomes of the wars that are ongoing as  opposed to feeling that there is this  technocratic class in washington dc  there is this elite level of government  that you can't see and can't touch and  can't understand and they're taking care  of everything for you they're making the  decisions on your behalf and it has  nothing to do with you and you don't you  don't deal with consequences so yeah i'm  just reading this i mean melissa is is  raising the very general question  of well you know  why don't the american people have any  say  and whether or not we go to both russia  and symmetrically in case you hadn't  noticed the people of russia have no say  in whether or not russia goes to war  exactly yes a lot of what i'm seeing  online is that  nobody in russia is supporting this war  and uh  in the united states everybody is saying  stop the war it's it's 2022. it's  current year why are we having war still  as though there haven't been military  conflicts going on for the past 20 years  we've all just been going to the  shopping mall right you know but that  disengagement is part of what makes it  so sickening  and what is the alternative okay so if  we don't want war are we just going to  let russia take ukraine you know what is  the option here  in action  yeah right well no you know and look i  just say like i'm actually open to the  whole range of possibilities but i'd  feel differently about it if there were  a vote on it  like i mean you know you could have a  vote and hypothetically the american  people decide you know what ukraine  always was part of russia i'm like you  could have a vote where the american  people said hey you know let let them  become a province of russia that that  could you know  right now in 2022 i don't believe that  would happen at all i think way more  than 50 of americans would say no we  should we should fight for the future of  of ukrainian democracy whether that's  wise or foolish  you know  if my point being if there were more  democracy um you would get this  escalating level of public engagement  public responsibility and political  education you know right now why should  americans educate themselves so one of  the examples melissa referred to very  briefly was in there for half a sentence  was donald trump kind of sort of  starting a war with iran  now i remember the mood in america at  that time politically  you know even the right wing in america  was just so exhausted and so fed up with  the war in afghanistan the war against  isis the war in syria and like the  low-level civil war within iraq they  were just like no  nobody on the left nobody in the right  nobody in the center nobody wanted to  start a new war with iran well donald  trump did and guess what you have a  system of government where just one man  makes all those decisions you know  like a king as an elected monarch i just  want to mention some of you may have  seen the video  some of you may have  played it in the background while  washing the dishes and not gotten the  point because you didn't actually see  the text that was on screen but i have a  two minute long video that makes this  argument i believe powerfully and  somewhat artistically it's a slightly  surreal slightly dyestic  uh video if you don't know what dataism  is you can google that too but this  video in two minutes makes the point i  think powerfully the american people  have never voted  on the beginning or ending of any war  there has never been a direct vote there  has never been a referendum on whether  or not america should start a war or  whether america should finish a war  should end a war that's excuse no that's  not how the vietnam war started it's  none of the vietnam war ended that's not  how world war ii started it's not world  war ii ended and these were debates the  american people were capable of of  producing it korean war like what the  [ __ ] was america's objective in korea  and you know i'm not saying that i'm not  saying that of an isolationist  perspective  but like the very simple and fundamental  questions of what is the objective of  the war like america quit halfway  through in case you didn't know half of  korea today is north korea  do you have a vote about that do you  have a vote should we just give up  should we just let half of korea be this  horrible communist dictatorship what  sense does that make at one point during  the war america had conquered all of  korea by the way and then china entered  and it's a long story an enormous number  of deaths good luck i don't know still  to this day can you get an honest  estimate of how many chinese died  in the korean war and by the way a lot  of people don't  know that a lot of people think that the  united states and china have never  directly fought each other in a war  there's never been direct conflict or  they think it's never happened in the  20th century or something there's never  been a direct case of the us army and  the chinese army going face to face  that's exactly what happened in the  korean war the for the most part  americans weren't fighting koreans  they're fighting the chinese no offense  to the north koreans but they were  outnumbered by the chinese to a  tremendous extent and it was it was  chinese men dying and it was chinese  airplanes getting shot down the north  koreans didn't have air force and this  other kind of this kind of war material  and chinese people died of starvation in  that war too by the way classic maoists  you know  [Laughter]  maoist economic management great to have  you guys all here if you have a second  please hit the thumbs up button i'm now  going to take the time and read and  respond to your comments if it's a good  time to make a comment but say if you  hit thumbs up it helps more people join  the conversation while it's going on  help people find the video  six months from now and six years from  now also and this is a video that will  be fascinating for me to go back and  listen to five years from now  whether or not i mean so this is 2022.  imagine watching this video in 2027. i'm  being honest i can't imagine that in  2027 i'm gonna watch this video and  think  i was wrong  wow i sure was misguided i sure was  naive  i  maybe maybe in 2027 i don't think saying  that  i wish i could tell you i feel that in  this video i'm taking a risk we're years  from now in the future i'll look back  and regret the political position  that is truly inconceivable  this is one of the advantages to being a  nihilist i don't believe in anything now  that i'm going to cease to believe in  later so it's it's pretty hard for me to  uh hard for me to see that that kind of  that kind of future regret looking back  at it but yeah the underlying issue here  is that what russia  china and the united states have in  common is that their foreign policy is  decided by just one man that there  really is no  democracy certainly no direct democracy  involved the united states elects donald  trump  and then for four years  everything in foreign policy everything  in international relations  can be decided by one man in one moment  and it can be someone as crazy as as  donald trump i mean now in this case you  know so as i say this comes back to the  first thing i said in the video joe  biden has  published his strategy  sincerely or insincerely this  this could be a formal misinformation  campaign  this could be telling you the exact  opposite of what he wants to do but  nevertheless it's causing an impact so  joe biden is apparently overtly telling  you what his strategy is but whatever he  decides to do nobody else is involved  it's just joe biden and people he hand  picks to be his advisors people who are  not elected  people or the unelected assistance of  the eop the executive office of the  president and he rules like a roman  emperor for four years  that's it you know congress  i think congress has anything to [ __ ]  do with it  oh  reading your comments now guys  yeah so wicked energy says i mean this  is a nuanced problem in understanding  china's position in 2022 quote the  chinese just brought up how they were  victims of colonialism when blamed for  not sanctioning russia so yeah i mean  it's a propaganda nightmare for the  chinese because the chinese have  justified their own  foreign policy domestic policy and so on  by saying that they don't invade anyone  they're not trying to expand  you know like the land that they  acquired during the qing dynasty they  intend to hold on to which includes you  know xinjiang uh places like that you  know they're going to hold on to tibet  they're going to hold on to but they're  not invading anybody they're not  expanding in any direction this comes up  a lot with the border  border conflict between china and india  china says hey we're not imperialists  we're not trying to expand we're just  trying to hold on to  what we've already had for at least a  century blah blah blah  um so it is true a huge  rationalization of chinese communism is  that it is fundamentally  anti-imperialist rather than imperialist  now  that's a transparent fiction that is a  fiction that is very easy to see through  it's a it's a fiction that it's very  easy to perceive it as fictional uh put  it that way  um  and this situation with  russian imperialism i don't know how you  can call it anything else but russia  really reestablishing this grander  empire more overtly than before  that puts the chinese  propaganda discourse into it into a  difficult situation  now without digressing into it in great  length  uh to make a list of the smaller uh  russian imperialist projects from the  post-1989 period this includes includes  nagorno-karabakh  how many of these can we do from memory  without googling  it includes quite a number of the  central asian states the turkmenistan  the greater turkmenistan region you know  there's special arrangements with that  the special eurasian economic union  uh it includes  transnistria the transinistrian republic  being carved off from moldova which by  the way is adjacent to and has a land  border with ukraine it's right there  this is another you know  so  and again i'm not i'm sorry and there's  also this small part of georgia that  russia uh carved off so  yes south ossetia  not not north ossetia south of city  right so there you go from memory south  ossetia nagorno-karabakh the central  asian republics is one other  uh  the former moldovan  region of trenton austria  so russia has a track record this way  and i am not saying this to demonize the  russians um each one of those  the russian perspective is coherent like  it's not  madness it's not  um and look at a map  why exactly is guam  part of the united states of america  great minds think of like  uh  google maps google it guam  oops okay i have a typo there  anyway guys if you don't know what guam  is or where guam is guam is a territory  of the united states of america indeed  you could google  uh unincorporated well it's too long  anyway that's too much to get into but  if you look at the outer territories if  you look at the guano islands ruled by  the united states of america there are a  lot of very strange remote islands  um that are part of the united states of  america northern mariana islands and so  on  um legal status  northern last i heard uh they were an  unincorporated territory of the united  states  yes so officially  northern mariana islands became part of  the united states in 1986  um  just put in that quote so the united  states has its own  history  ongoing history this way sorry hey how  about hawaii yeah  it's an earlier period it's not it's not  the 1980s the annexation of hawaii and  the places america has annexed  they are not  rational in the same way that the  creation of transnistra is  rational or the sothosetia conflict like  again i'm not  okay it comes back to what i said  earlier probably the most important  point i can make in this video  is that you should not view the other  side as entirely evil you have to look  at it as a mix of good and evil and see  what it is they're doing right what is  they're doing successfully or  effectively and then when you do that it  puts an onus on you  to really innovate to really offer  something better from your perspective  what is your solution for the future of  trans and easter egg may sound stupid  but it's a real issue what's your what's  your solution for the future of central  asia do you want the work do you want  france and germany  to to start ruling and stabilizing  predominantly muslim central asia do you  think they can do a better job than the  russians do already and i'm sorry uh can  i list them off from memory from in  turkmenistan  kazakhstan tajikistan there you go  turkmenistan in that area do you want a  more aggressive american policy or  french policy or german do you want  do you want to play that stabilizing  role in central asia that the russians  currently are are playing can you do  that better than russia or do you want  to pull out those clothes pins  you know sorry like you imagine laundry  drying do you want to pull out those  stabilizing clothes and replace them  with nothing because if so you're going  to get a situation like isis i can tell  you exactly who will take over central  asia it's going to be a combination of  drug dealing organized crime like drug  gangs and muslim fundamentalists you  know uh guerilla armies or say terrorist  group that's that's who can take over if  you remove that strong stabilizing hand  of you know of the nominally secular  nominally democratic you know states  that currently rule central asia working  hand in glove with the russian empire  that's the reality of what's going on in  central asia 2022. so again it's not all  bad  it's bad  but it's a mix of good and evil and you  have to understand that in in a nuanced  and sophisticated way  um  that was a long answer to a short  comment  and why i am asking your comments now  guys 41 people in the audience great to  have you here if you have a second hit  the thumbs up because it'd be great if  we had 41 thumbs up also  okay so i think this is a mistake also  um an anonymous commenter says quote  russia is broke they have the gdp of  florida their nukes need updating okay  in terms of  military strategy just looking at the  military you're dead wrong but russia  has  the most effective fighting force in the  world  and they just proved it in syria they  just kicked everyone's asses in syria  with a tiny budget  so you're talking about the the  effectiveness per dollar of the military  the russians are the best in the world  they're an incredibly impressive army on  every level  now  in terms of the poverty of that army and  the poverty of russia as a whole  what do you think your quality of life  would be like if you were a soldier in  the russian army the answer is terrible  like just  the quality of food and  shelter and your quality of life if you  bore a career  soldier russia a further question what  do you think your quality of life would  be as a mercenary  working for the russians directly or  indirectly because they they do also  employ these mercenary groups and to my  knowledge many of the many of the men  who join those mercenary groups they're  russian soldiers who want a higher  quality of life better pay you know  that's exactly why they end up in those  groups uh so the poverty is real but it  doesn't mean what you what you think it  means and sorry you know i just  mentioned syria as an example i know  haven't you noticed they conquered  ukraine in about a day and a half  uh no they have a tremendously effective  army and it's ridiculous to  underestimate them on that on that front  and by the way you know i was talking  about mongolia before i have no doubt  that that russia could conquer  mongolia and that's exactly what china  is afraid of and china would counter it  you know then you'd get into a war with  with china if you spur the the russians  to occupy or even extend their power  uh into mongolia and that that that  conflict goes on even with the question  of who controls the railroad  corporations whenever the russians  increase their presence  in the mongolian railroads the chinese  say hey hey you know they can  they can escalate from their side too  they're very they're very concerned  about that the chinese and they have  historical reasons to be as i say on a  deep level  the chinese and the russians hate each  other um but they are currently united  by their  shared opposition to  joe biden  and interestingly they're united in a  way they were not  under donald trump just a short time ago  so again sorry some more kind of  ignorance they just think some of these  comments are ignorant but they're worth  responding to from the same um  anonymous commenter quote the people who  are most dangerous with nuclear weapons  are islamic fundamentalists who are  happy to give up their lives for a free  trip to heaven and 72 versions close  so you are incorrect  and this was a major factor  in the war with isis  the muslim fundamentalists take very  seriously their commitment to never  using chemical weapons  so you will notice even though they're  tremendously brutal  muslim fundamentalists don't engage in  torture  they will never  disfigure the corpse of an enemy who's  already killed they have a series of  religious principles they keep in  warfare so by the way for example they  will sexually enslave a woman  but they will not rape her  until  they've gone through the procedure of  enslaving her i know this may sound  ridiculous but it's a religious code of  honor those guys take that very  seriously  and the whole isis phenomenon start to  finish  you saw they fought by those rules  so this kind of use of the chemical and  biological weapons and so on is off the  table for them so in many ways  actually muslim fundamentalists are the  easiest  enemy to deal with their faith makes  them predictable  and it limits what they're willing to do  in war they fight by a by a code of  honor  um so that's  again obviously i'm not  saying this to insult you but you are  really incorrect and it shows that you  haven't been reading really  serious non-fiction about politics in  the last few years because you you  should know this  um  no and as bad as the struggle against  isis was in in many ways  that was never the concern that was  never the problem isis was fighting for  a traditional and indeed medieval notion  of of government um it was not anything  not any way come in contact with this  kind of nuclear  nuclear threat superpower thing was not  their objective  and no it's it's much more plausible  that for example north korea would use  nuclear weapons to make a point  than  you know isis or any of those muslim  fundamentalist groups uh anyway yeah so  i mean obviously i'm here talking about  the the heart of the muslim world  geographically  if you get into muslims who are in japan  or the philippines or muslims who are in  africa  maybe there are some muslim  fundamentalist groups that are  exceptions to this rule because they're  highly eccentric muslim cult groups or  something but no um i i mention this  because it's it's instructive  interesting  uh  comment from a greek member of the  audience quote the prime minister of  greece took the initiative and sent  military equipment into ukraine a  decision that was ruled unconstitutional  he and he insinuated that if turkey  makes a move  america and nato support greece  so  uh welcome to the crowd uh constantia  seems the same name as as constantine um  welcome to the crowd i'm happy to have  another greek in the audience i've been  to greece recently i care a lot about  greek politics and i care a lot about  the conflict in greece and turkey that  seemingly no one else talks about now  again you are  incorrect oh and there's another comment  from you uh constantia also says quote  however that wasn't the case in cyprus  right so constantia  i have said again and again on this  youtube channel that nato must be  abolished and replaced with a new treaty  or a new clique whatever you want to say  and the reason is turkey  nato  was founded on the premise  that both turkey and greece would be  members and you could say that this was  based on the idealistic american  assumption that if turkey and greece  were together in nato  peace and brotherhood would emerge  between that the problems would  disappear  and you know that that was stupid and  wrong but not completely crazy because  you might say well  greece and turkey are both terrified of  war with the soviet union at that time  or so you know put them together in this  alliance and it'll work out obviously  from an american perspective you could  have that attitude towards cyprus it's  totally false it's totally immoral it's  also wrong it didn't work  but that was the american perspective  nato  is  a turkey centered alliance  all right  the cuban missile crisis happened  because america had placed missiles in  turkey aimed at russia  right the early period of nato you know  up to and including jfk's presidency  john kennedy's presidency and the cuban  missile crisis it was all about turkey  now that may sound crazy but if you look  at a map  and you also have to think about this  in politics very often  the focus of your political activity  um  what we call in english the bellwether  sorry i'm aware many people in the  audience english is not your your your  first language the bellwether or the  watershed  it's the part that you can  change it's the part that's variable  right that may be of decisive importance  you know  if you ask the question well why was  turkey so important and not france  france is going to support the united  states anyway nobody has to do anything  there's no real concern that france is  going to support the soviet union  there's no there's no two ways about it  france can't play both sides you know  france's commitment is obvious you know  france is working um france was working  hand in glove with the united states  during world war ii and then and by the  way the very morally disturbing  transition to the vietnam war if you  want to look at what france and the cia  were doing together in those years whoa  so frank france you know there's no  reason for nato to be used to  uh jockey france into position or like  that's not what you're disputing so in  the same way like in in elections  very often you know  politicians are focused on a minority in  the population who could vote for either  party who could vote they're the the  watershed they're the bellwether they're  the part that can that can change  so partly just due to geography partly  due to a variety of military factors  it's a good place to put missiles if you  want them to be able to strike st  petersburg and moscow for many reasons  turkey was seen to be  of tremendous  military importance at that time  and  now you might think okay fine but that's  the 1950s and 1960s  isn't that completely crazy when you get  to the 1970s no turkey only increased in  value because the united states chose to  make an enemy out of india i've made  other videos talking about that 1971 the  united states becomes an enemy of india  it's completely stupid it's completely  crazy the united states enters into an  alliance with china which is  simultaneously an alliance against india  and an alliance against russia  incredibly stupid i have no excuse for  that  well that makes turkey even more  important  right so i'm sorry the reality is that  basically right up to say donald trump  america has been  insanely pro-turkey they've been  catering to  turkey um they've been trying to keep  turkey  in the pro-american  alliance as much as possible and that  that is really the reason for the  creation of nato  you know if turkey wasn't there like  what do you think what's controversial  like oh you think i mean west germany  today is just germany do you think west  germany was not going to support america  anyway  tell you about the period time when  germany was divided  hmm  well i'm not really sure what side we're  on here like most of these countries  don't have a choice they're desperate to  be in that alliance you know  um  so you know  the fulcrum  of  nato  was  turkey and now i'm for me it's very easy  to say today in 2022 that makes no sense  it's strategically dumb it's  pragmatically counterproductive and it's  totally immoral that's my perspective  it's not joe biden's perspective joe  biden is still pro-turkey and that comes  that's in the strategy  so yeah um anyway uh  it's sad it's sickening it's evil it's  wrong but if you were really following  what happened in the war in syria  the whole thing was a dance with turkey  right  and naturally enough i mean syria used  to be a part of turkey like of course of  course it's turkey's problem why is it  america's problem why should washington  dc rule over syria it's ridiculous of  course but you know if you want to know  what's happening in libya  okay turkey is a player france is a  player you know egypt is a player turkey  is a is a big important power in many  many many of these of these conflicts  and you know i feel that turkey is  really america's enemy certainly right  now in 2022 and we're stuck with a cold  war mentality i don't think it made  sense in the 1950s or 1960s but even if  you if you do if you accept that this  made sense in the 1950s and 1960s we  should admit that it makes no sense  today and so for from my perspective the  solution is to completely dissolve nato  and start a new a new treaty and right  now would be a great time to do it i  mean if joe biden did that now everyone  would sign up because everyone is united  by both i mean put it this way everyone  is united by anti-russia animus right  now  in a way that they were not united just  six months ago by anti-china animus you  know some countries are anti-china  australia is very anti-china many are  not you know many countries are  they feel they can work with china make  the best of it and again i understand  why  there's a lot there's a lot to like  about china there is i mean again it's  not all bad it's not all  it's not all evil and okay sorry i know  this is a long answer to a short  question but it's i mean it's deep and i  don't i feel not a lot of people know  what i know sadly about about politics  what if i try to argue against my  physician on  on turkey  right now  america supports turkey  and america for years supported turkey  in building an oil pipeline  that would  supply oil to western europe  uh to compensate for  the reduction  of russian oil exports a reduction or  cessation of russian launch that's  america's grand strategy short term with  turkey so they're saying to turkey hey  if you're on our side if you stay in the  pro-american camp the pro-nato camp you  can make millions of dollars out of oil  money you know this can be your  strategic role so there is an argument  and that is joe biden's position joe  biden is pro-turkey joe biden feels that  turkey is crucial to his anti-russia  policy  um he probably feels positively about  the role turkey is playing  in syria and north africa probably  you know or feels more positive but he  feels that it's fine to let turkey do  its own thing there  um  [Music]  so you know  joe biden is in effect pro turkey so far  could change  and joe biden doesn't care about the  future of democracy in turkey apparently  nobody cares about the future of  democracy in greece or cyprus which i  think is a totally immoral excusable  position i care but apparently you know  joe biden doesn't and donald trump  didn't either and the prime minister of  england doesn't i have no idea i have no  idea how the british and french and  german sleep with themselves at night  when the situation in cyprus is what it  is it's so utterly immoral to me but  that's carried on for decades and i mean  greece itself  situation is not that much better than  cyprus  um they really are in a perpetual state  of war with turkey um  you could you can call it a cold war  all right so i'm just taking a moment to  read your comments now guys  so again a stupid comment but one worth  reading out quote now we have feminism  perhaps the young women will be  conscripted to fight the next war close  quote well right now allegedly about 15  percent  of the armed combatants in ukraine are  female so i'm sorry but you're just out  of date we obviously we had women  fighting in  you know iraq afghanistan and so on but  i mean israel i believe israel still has  the highest percentage of women you know  in in combat you know actually in active  military duty of any power but if not  you know no no i mean women women are  fighting in war as as never before and  ukraine itself is a showcase  quote from long time viewer do you want  to give me the kiss  uh asking is obfuscation always  necessary and effective  i mean look sorry it's a good question  all right shout out to abkhazia yeah i'm  kenzie  oh melissa says she was trying to add up  kazzy out of the list um  look is this strategy  obfuscation like we don't know  we do not know  um  so yeah  anyways fine  okay so here so uh constantina sorry i  pronounced your name constantina uh  comments  we're all over the story we've known  about this for years quote they have  already agreed to use the nato base in  alexandropoli for potential missiles  you are talking to two of the people on  earth who considered moving to  alexandropoli permanently because of the  opening of that base right that's how  that's how pro-war we are and how  anti-turkey we are it's on we knew about  that back when the announcement was made  we went to athens and look i'll be  honest with you right now it's still a  good idea for us we you know whether you  think of it as opening a language school  there because we could we could teach  english we could teach chinese we could  have someone teaching russian  we could have a great language institute  in alexandropoli and if you want to we  can be involved in tourism to some  extent also we can open a vegan gym i  don't i'm just being honest i don't  really want to run a vegan restaurant we  could have a gym there or something we  can go build an an empire in  alexandropoli but alexandropoli it  it partly it's the tourism ministry but  it's partly a military town now and  it'll be expanding but i was in droplet  that's a that's a real temptation but we  we seriously looked at buying a home in  alexandria we really consider this it's  colder than you think let's look it up  right now it's not it's not that hot  that's the disappointment  oh i can't even get i can't even get a  current temperature reading out of  google it shows okay here we go  uh so currently eight degrees centigrade  give you that in fahrenheit for those of  you 46 fahrenheit eight there's see it's  not  it's not that hot it's not cambodia you  know what i'm saying  anyway yeah not not hating on  alexandropoli but yeah yeah  alexandropoli this was this  major strategic move by the united  states that really matters  and i'm sure the political elite and  turkey know about it too  but it's ridiculous you know  we can't admit to ourselves like we  meaning americans i'm canadian but you  know we can't admit to ourselves that  turkey really is our enemy  just  get over it and you know sorry england  also if you don't know sir you're  talking about alexandropoly you must be  aware england has an enormous military  base on the island of cyprus  it's been there continuously for a  hundred years i'm sorry roughly a  hundred years approximately hundred  years but you know  you know  england should be involved they should  be showing a lot of uh initiative in  that conflict and they're and they're  not  so fine so great as i said i think this  is ending the the ukraine part of the  discussion because we have so much more  to talk about with u.s foreign policy  but wicked energy asks quote thoughts on  russian mistakes and you train tanks  getting stuck in the mud running out of  fuel  um etc so i've got to tell you what  energy i see that as 100  uh propaganda maybe this is a good  transition i see a lot of [ __ ] in  the newspapers  that reflects the fundamental fact that  when you have a strategy  you don't talk about it publicly like  normally in foreign policy peace or war  even in times of peace your strategy is  exactly what you don't publish what you  don't tell anyone about  and um  you know there are these newspaper  stories about how how amazingly  effective  shoulder-mounted anti-tank missiles are  [Laughter]  let me tell you something the missiles  that are really effective are not in the  newspapers that way that's a propaganda  that's that is complete [ __ ] you  know like oh yeah we have these amazing  stinger missiles we have these amazing  yeah really you know this is so there is  there's just outright silly propaganda  in in in the newspapers and  you know tanks running out of gas in the  mud  [Laughter]  look the reality is russia conquered  ukraine in about a day or a day and a  half  and um  you know if they wanted to they could  have already completely demolished the  capital city they could have already  completely burned kiev to the ground  are you kidding yourself i assume it's  just that if you for humanitarian  reasons they haven't done so they're in  a position to just set up um artillery  and and have artillery shells incendiary  shells raining down on ukraine and the  city could be completely demolished you  know so you know the russians won the  war and they won the war so rapidly that  most of western europe was left in a  state of stunned disbelief  and you know  you know  some tanks somewhere  ran out of gas  you know it's totally possible that  their orders were this is normal in war  this was already normal in world war ii  it's totally possible their orders were  headed this bearing until you run out of  gas and then set up tank to set up camp  there that's normal it takes you a lot  of gas and then we'll send trucks to  give you new fuel if and when we want to  move you but those could have been the  orders to begin with just proceed you  know proceed by so many degrees north by  northwest um until you run out of gas  normal anymore but  but yes i also have heard some of these  ridiculous stories in the newspaper  about you know the tremendous victory is  being won by the ukrainian side yeah  right you know  right now which which army is occupying  odessa okay like take a look at oh you  you know the news is admitting today  that ukraine no longer has any access to  the ocean  so you have no more access to the harbor  in odessa  who who won the war let's get real  but look you know um the issue with  greece  that's obviously the future for ukraine  i mean if ukraine is going to have a  future independent from russia  it would be a future  integrated with greece period that has  to be their connection  to the outside world you know um in  terms of maritime traffic most obviously  but also economically and culturally  really you'd be proposing a kind of  greco  a ukrainian alliance integration which  by the way in some ways the greeks would  hate in case you haven't heard the  greeks hate the macedonians the greeks  hate the slavs generally it's it's  basically just racism it's also partly  religious rivalry so you know melissa's  smiling you gotta no  i don't know maybe some some anything  with this but you know they they don't  get along easily but that obviously  that's what ukraine needs and it's  probably what the greeks have to accept  would be um  partly a strategic alliance but also a  cultural and economic  alliance that really really brings them  together  and  obviously from my perspective all these  people have to give up their religion  and become atheists i think it's just a  joke but you know ukraine has its own  independent church the ukrainian  orthodox church and greece has an  orthodox church and they don't get along  so that's a that's a problem  yeah  this ain't cnn  you will not get this level of honesty  about politics on cnn  so look um  certainly a segue from from  ukraine  america is saying in this document that  they are 100  in an alliance with india  against china  are they  are they really  what if that's a false flag what if  that's a holo boast within just the last  few days  the people of the world have been asking  why does india support russia  just a few months ago we were hearing  all this drum beating about how india  and america were now allies as never  before against china  i would not say this was received with  rapturous applause within india the  people of india  deeply hate and resent america not that  surprising because america was a  military opponent of india's from 1971  to 2021  you know who was india's supporter and  ally from 1971 to 2021 actually started  a little bit earlier than that russia  all right and the alliance and military  cooperation between india and russia  continued through  the end of communism  follow the berlin wall however you want  to put it right it has basically been a  continuous partnership continuous  cooperation 1971 2021 and the indians  are saying loud and clear right now  they want their cooperation with russia  to continue  in 2022 and for the foreseeable future  so here is one  striking respect in which this whole  document the official  secret strategy of joe biden can be  maybe  complete [ __ ] it may be completely  misleading it may be that the  alliance between the united states and  india is more seeming  than real now you know  given the declaration of what's called  the quad the quadrilateral alliance how  we want to put it  um  given the the declaration of that  um  would it be unreasonable  to expect india to be saying loudly and  clearly that russia's invasion of  ukraine is wrong and that india supports  nato india supports united states  america and india sports western  european powers like germany and france  in opposing russia's  illegal and immoral expansion conquering  various parts of ukraine why would that  be  unreasonable why would that be  surprising now  i'm going to be real with you  today japan is also not a very  enthusiastic supporter of the united  states of america i my overall feeling  is japan is frankly kind of dragging its  feet  japan a very good example japan is very  happy to do business with iran  japan and iran have much more positive  relations much more positive cooperation  much more  economic involvement than america wants  them  and basically right up until 2022  japan was trying to do the same thing  with russia they were trying to have as  much  positive cooperation as possible make as  much money as possible  if we're being all the way honest  england  the city of london england deeply  embedded in the russian economy and  russian  economy was deeply embedded in the city  of lotus another now you know it may  seem like the total amount of money  russia has to offer isn't that great let  me tell you something downtown  london the city of london  it counts for a lot goes a long way  russian millionaire money goes away  cyprus also by the way talking about  cyprus russians have a big impact on the  economy of cyprus this is another  example so you know it's not enormous  the russian economy but it can feel huge  whether you're in london whether you're  in cyprus or whether you are whether  you're in japan so you know the fact  that india  is not on america's side  in ukraine in opposing russia  you can ask the question does that  extend does that expose the extent to  which this whole document is a kind of  disinformation campaign is a kind of  intentional  uh fraud a kind of intentional deception  but so far is this you know okay another  a very different interpretation  what if this is completely earnest  but it is as we say  aspirational  what if this is joe biden saying that  the position he aspires to be in  is having a totally positive alliance  with india or india and america on the  same side  and together they're opposing  china very different  now what this whole document avoids  doing  is saying that america is on the side of  democracy  and that it's opposing tyranny  why would that be hard to say  why would it be difficult to describe  america's agenda under joe biden as  being pro-democracy  anti-communism  anti-dictatorship  anti-tyranny why is that well it's it's  real funny  when you look at the list  of allies  the list of alliances that america  either actually has  or that they are claiming they have  again  on a huge scale to what extent is  america's military partnership with  india just smoke screen to what extent  is it [ __ ] to what extent is it not  really a viable alliance right now  warren ukraine exposes this that it may  be a phony or hollow or unreliable  alliance well you know also prominent on  the list here is vietnam  again  this isn't saying  aspirationally in the future  hypothetically we'd like to be in an  alliance with vietnam against china it's  seeing that it's already now  an accomplished fact  right so i ask you  i don't know  and i think this is top secret i think  really nobody  in this audience can i think you don't  know  how close are  vietnam the united states to what extent  are vietnam the united states right now  in a military partnership in a strategic  partner to what extent do they have a  treaty  or commitment  kamala harris went there in person  why  why did camilla harris go to vietnam  what document did the vietnamese  government sign  or what did they just say verbally and  seal with a handshake  with camel harris what was the  commitment made but you said  some of these things are secret  the promises america has made to taiwan  are totally secret nobody knows and  nobody knows if they count for it you  know whereas the promises america and  england made to ukraine were overt they  were written on paper and guess what  they counted for nothing you know  neither england nor america kept their  side of the bargain when ukraine signed  that agreement to get rid of their  nuclear arms in response to assurances  that their territory would never be  taken away from them someone in the  audience know the exact year that  agreement was that was in the in the  1990s after uh when communism was  falling apart the denuclearization of  ukraine uh involved this complex treaty  in which the british and the americans  said they would basically back up  ukrainian territorial sovereignty and  the russians said well they don't want  any terror they don't want to take away  any land from ukraine so it was no  problem for them they signed it also  since then in russia things changed but  at that time russia was happy to make  that commitment i assume it was sincere  just for the people who were in in  charge in russia that time they didn't  think they they didn't think they wanted  to conquer crimea so  hand it over  um  perhaps the most telling paragraph  in this  document that is full of  studiously opaque and misleading baffle  gab  is the list  of america's military alliances  in two tiers  two levels  it's very significant  to pay attention to which names are in  the second tier instead of the first  year the lower tier instead of the top  tier  and it's very significant to think about  the countries that are not named at all  that are just omitted from this list  okay so this is overtly  joe biden's grand strategy  we are deepening our five regional  treaty alliances  with  australia japan  south korea  the philippines  and thailand  end of list  not india  india is not in that list  india is not in the list  of countries they have a treaty alliance  with  who else  is not in that list  taiwan  are you telling me the united states  does not  have a treaty alliance  with taiwan really  that's interesting  that's  now i'm going to read you the the tier 2  list the lower tier list right  it's great to have 50 people in the  audience if you have a second please hit  the thumbs up button some of you been  here for a whole hour some of you just  arrived but it helps more people  discover the video both while i'm  recording it we can join in the  conversation later please take a moment  to hit the thumbs up and guys  here's here's the lower tier  list okay  india  indonesia  malaysia  mongolia  if you've been watching since the  beginning i warned you i told you  mongolia was important right  new zealand  singapore  taiwan  vietnam  and the pacific islands  unnamed  unspecified uh  pacific islands now  why  would the philippines  be in the top tier list  right  and why would taiwan  be in the lower tier list  the lots of countries here that aren't  mentioned at all  how about brunei  sultan of brunei is reading this and  he's got to worry  which side is he on why does he not have  a treaty alliance  with america right there are a lot of  countries big and small  how about nepal  if you're in nepal  right  and you say whoa whoa whoa whoa  mongolia is on this list but not nepal  why okay that matters  it matters to america it matters to  china it matters to nepal it matters to  india why isn't nepal  on the list so again there are two tiers  here the first are treaty alliances  it is completely surreal to say there's  no treaty alliance with taiwan  what is america's status with taiwan if  not a treaty alliance right so my point  is this is [ __ ] but it's [ __ ]  that matters politically how can you say  you don't have a treaty alliance with  anyone and conversely how can you say  that you do have a treaty alliance with  the philippines  like what is the definition of treaty  alliance here right now again i'm not  saying there's no paperwork between  america and the philippines but that's  pretty weird  that's pretty weird what definition  you know south korea i think is  self-explanatory not all of these okay  sorry thailand  thailand  what is the alliance you have with  thailand  exactly you know  i'm just raising i'm not saying there is  no answer this question but this is  telling you the mentality of of the  biden presidency  what if right now you are a part of the  government in laos or cambodia  you're not on the list at all what's  cambodia's status what's the status of  loss there are a whole lot of countries  that are gonna have to ask themselves  these these tough questions okay but the  top tier  is a treaty alliance which is apparently  something taiwan doesn't have with the  united states america  but the philippines does  the lower tier is simply described as  countries that america has a regional  partnership with  these are regional partners  so that means  nothing  that means whatever the [ __ ] you want to  say it means  so there's no treaty with india  india is only on the lower tier list  of a regional partner  right  read it again real quick  india indonesia malaysia so let's just  stop those first three  so you've been saying all this stuff  about how you're in a military alliance  with india against china no you're not  your relationship with india is just as  shaky  as your relationship with malaysia  and indonesia  so what  malaysia and indonesia are about 99  muslim i'm sorry you can look maybe it's  down to 98 or 97 at this point okay what  what the [ __ ] what really do you think  is the political relationship to the  united states and malaysia political  relations between united states and  indonesia  like are you kidding me  you think the united states has a  positive relationship than it is and how  does it compare to the philippines by  the way the government of the  philippines is actively involved in  slaughtering muslims  on a weekly basis  if you didn't know there's an ongoing  low-level civil war within the  philippines basically to suppress the  muslim population there like  how do you think malaysia and indonesia  feels about the american military  presence in the philippines and that  really  and you got india on the same level of  partnership  as as malaysia and indonesia oh oh hey  during the war in afghanistan do you  remember malaysia and indonesia  supporting the united states of america  huh  huh oh hey right the [ __ ] now right now  in ukraine  or what's  what's malaysia been doing in ukraine  what is the position malaysia and  indonesia have taken against the  russians and what do you think they're  going to do in the week's ed really  so those countries are on the same tier  as india and i've already been asked the  question what what is india going to do  my answer is i think india is trying to  sustain  the partnership the cooperation they've  had with russia  really since before 1971 but 1971 was a  turn point where it became much more  important because indian united states  became enemies okay so this level we  have again  india indonesia malaysia mongolia  mongolia very interesting  uh political chess board okay new  zealand  singapore  taiwan vietnam and the pacific islands  what's gonna happen in the next five  years  and  again  joe biden has had the luxury  of saying that his agenda is to be  pro-democracy and anti-dictatorship  pro-democracy anti-communism  pro-democracy anti-tyranny  this document  does not say that  this document says loud and clear  that joe biden is anti-china  and that he is willing to support and he  is willing to get into bed with  any other country that is anti-china no  matter how despicable  is vietnam a democracy  how democratic really is malaysia  indonesia the philippines really  so it's not about  being pro-democracy that's a choice  that's the choice joe biden made  right and now we're all going to deal  with the consequences for the next 10  years 20 years whatever it proves to be  certain  certainly i mean i think the next  president at states after joe biden will  also be a democrat now i don't think joe  biden is going to run for a second term  of office just because of his old age  but whether it's kamala harris or  someone else i think we're going to see  joe biden's  joe biden's legacy continue on  now you know  quote through our diplomatic engagement  foreign assistance and work with  regional organizations  the united states will be a partner in  strengthening democratic institutions  the rule of law and accountable  democratic governance  close quote  hong kong  what are you gonna do  nothing  myanmar  what are you gonna do  nothing right  is there a lot of big questions here now  look again i'm i'm also open to talking  about countries like nepal nepal has  significant amount of democracy i'm iran  and there are a lot of countries iran is  partly democratic like they do have  elections and they have newspapers that  can talk about politics i mean there are  a lot of these countries that are in  that are somewhat democratic or it's  more nuanced okay but  myanmar and hong kong these are really  clear tests  for american foreign policy and frankly  the taiwan versus communist china  uh which by the way i'll get there  hashtag spoilers  this document takes the most immoral  position the most hypocritical position  on taiwan possible  joe biden didn't have to do that there's  no pressure on okay  um  so you know here is a sentence that  matters a great deal to everyone every  country i've just listed off this  document including even in indonesia  malaysia  quote  in particular we will build support for  rules-based approaches to the maritime  domain  including in the south china sea  and east chassis  so it's clear as mud there were a few  other passages that say the same thing  without any greater specificity or  clarity but this basically means they're  going to fight against china's claim to  the south china sea china's claim to  control the south china sea the  so-called nine-dash line uh map which is  also referred to as the seven dash line  map and the 11-line map it's all the  same app but china's claims to the south  china sea displayed on a map with some  number of dashes in the line  so crucially  yeah  now again  on a very separate page it completely  vaguely states that america is in this  partnership to support the rise of india  and india's  regional leadership  and that they've formed this alliance  called the quad which exists  obviously i'm rephrasing to oppose  china's government pardon me to oppose  china's dominance and to support  an increased role for india all right  interesting  but this may really be disinformation  this may really be just what america  wants china to hear  and there may not be any underlying  reality to the supposed alliance with  india  quote the united states will continue to  stand up for democracy in burma  working closely with allies and partners  to press the burmese military to provide  for a return to democracy including  through credible implementation of the  five-point consensus  i interpret that to mean america is  going to do nothing for me anymore  i think that is a polite way  of saying it and it is interesting that  you would declare this openly  in a so-called strategy of this kind  most shockingly  this document states with no pressure in  the american government to do this that  the united states of america  supports the one china policy  which is to say that they support the  notion that taiwan is not now and never  will be an independent country that  china is pardoning that taiwan is just a  province of china the one china policy  means that you do not recognize  taiwanese sovereignty you do not  recognize that taiwan is now or could be  or should be in the future a separate  country that taiwan is just a  an eccentric  province of communist china  i have no idea why he said that  nobody forced him into a corner to do so  i need to quote the text it just states  bluntly out of the blue that the united  states of america still supports one  china policy uh on top one okay i'll get  hold on search the pdf here and get the  exact word  here we go quote so melissa if you want  to look it's on page 13.  the top of page 13.  [Music]  we quote we will also work with partners  inside and outside of the region to  maintain peace and stability in the  taiwan strait including by supporting  taiwan's self-defense capabilities to  ensure an environment in which taiwan's  future is determined peacefully in  accordance with the wishes and best  interests of taiwan's people  why didn't you use the word democracy i  don't know why didn't you use the word  communism too this is anti-communism  i continue quote  as we do so our approach remains  consistent with our one china policy and  our long-standing commitments under the  taiwan relations act the three joint  communiques and the six assurances  so that is a totally bizarre i have no  idea why in the year 2022 joe biden or  anyone else would say they support  the one china policy i don't  do you who the hell would support the  one china policy i think it would have  been much better to say the exact  opposite to say the one child with the  one china policy is a fossil that should  be put in the museum and it should have  no significance should have no meaning  in politics today that taiwan already is  an independent country and that everyone  should recognize that and everyone  support should support taiwan in its  struggle against  chinese communist dictatorship  given that the whole document's major  thesis is that america is now and  forever in the future  part of this grand world spy spanning  anti-china alliance an anti-china  alliance that is so important apparently  that russia is just a footnote to a  footnote in it and there's no interest  in russia in this document and there  could be i mean i know i know even  though the title is that it's the the  indo-pacific one still you could have  you could have several paragraphs in  there or you could have a major thesis  about how russia fits into that because  guess what you know russia also controls  a significant part of the pacific  coastline casey didn't know russia goes  all the wasting it controls part of  northern japan as has been mentioned you  know well russia is a pacific power too  russia is there at the end of pacific  and russia has its own policy in myanmar  and cambodia and everywhere else they're  very much a palpable  um presence  so you know  joe biden's thesis here is that the  immediate future of the united states of  america  is  a struggle against china  period and that they're willing to be  allies with vietnam and they're willing  to ignore  the lack of democracy in myanmar frankly  the lack of democracy in places like the  philippines and numerous other partners  they don't care about anything else  they're willing to work with anyone who  will join their their anti-china  alliance and russia is a footnote to a  footnote in this in this grand strategy  maybe it's all [ __ ] in a sense i  kind of hope so but sadly i uh i suspect  that this really is  earnestly enough  joe biden's strategy  and also it states his aspirations that  it's an aspirational document this is  what he wants his relationship with  india to be it's what he wants the  relationship with vietnam to be  so on and so forth  and it's possible  that some of the countries who are  slated in this that it's actually trying  to excite their jealousy what you're  trying to say to nepal  look if you want to if you want to be on  the same level you have to step up you  have to make an effort to justify being  a strategic partner in the united states  you know it's possible there's some  some jiggery pokery uh going on that way  okay guys i'm gonna wrap it up but right  now is a great time to make a comment  that i'll actually read and respond to  now is a great time to the thumbs up  button  by all means share the link with any  share the link to this video with any  friends or family you have who will be  horrified to hear this because it is it  is horrifying it is uh melissa if you  want to if you want to add anything if  you want to you know object you may you  may do so  um let me just ask whether you were  japanese  or burmese or iranian or any other  nationality  you know if you're looking at this from  the outside  why  should japan  support the united states  if the united states is not going to  unambiguously support democracy in  taiwan  why would that be too much to ask  from the united states why would that be  too much as back especially given that  it doesn't cost america anything you  know i mean conquering afghanistan cost  you a lot of money for the debt it's  unfathomable how much money obama wasted  in afghanistan and by the way i'm saying  obama because if you look at the budget  totals obama spent vastly more money  than george w bush did in that sample  unbelievable okay well you know it cost  you nothing why can't you have an  america that stands up for democracy  in  myanmar  in hong kong  in mongolia in taiwan and if  the united states of america doesn't  stand up for any of these things  what then what is this alliance were  supporting and why  because there would be advantages to  getting along with china or supporting  china to some extent including obviously  economic advantage there's a lot of  money involved what what is it that  you're asking the allies  uh to support  now look i care a lot about politics in  thailand i used to talk about it more on  channel  thailand has a very tenuous and  difficult relationship to democracy i  think it's fair to say thailand is a  country that struggles  to sustain  democracy why can't america  have a really strident passionate  position on democracy in thailand you  know i it wouldn't cost them anything  where you know they say hey we support  the democracy you have now we want you  to be even more democratic we want you  to improve and and move in that  direction and instead you know america  has this very cagey detached and distant  attitude towards thailand when it has  repeatedly lapsed in and out of periods  of military dictatorship of having at  least formally  no democracy at all  so  joe biden has taken up a position  that is both impolitic and unstrategic  it's both immoral  and ineffective  i don't think he's playing to win and  he's also not playing to be right like  morally you know it's it's a very  strange position he's adopted  i have no reason to think japan will  really support america in this i have no  reason to think india will really  support america in this and you have to  ask from the japanese perspective or the  indian perspective what's in it for us  what's in it for me why should we now  let's come back to turkey  where was turkey mentioned in this  document i think i can check right now i  think turkey is not mentioned even once  i think turkey's name does not appear in  this document  you are expecting right now i'm just  doing a search you are expecting the  turks nope turkey's name does not appear  neither as an adjective nor is now  you were expecting the church to support  the american empire u.s foreign policy  what's in it for them  you know the so obviously we can give a  complex answer we started to trace that  but this is this is the deal in america  is going around the world to these  junkets  and they're saying sign up now to  support this  unfortunately it kind of  it raises some really difficult  questions and it doesn't provide the  answers precisely answers should be  giving instead you get a lot of baffle  gab about how america is gonna support a  free and open economy in asia  well you know  if i lose the ability to trade with  china and i lose the ability to trade  with russia and to have investment both  ways the china russia that's not  actually a free and open economy like if  you ask a country like laos cambodia  thailand to cut off trade with china  that's not afraid of economy that's a  pro-american embargo an anti-china  embargo that will have devastating  serious effects on the on the local  economy for any of those countries but  china is a huge percentage of the  world's economy but it's a huge  percentage of thailand's economy it's an  even bigger percentage of thailand's  economy right uh you know now the  vietnamese may be down for it the  vietnamese intensely hate  china there's a deep you know slightly  racist hatred uh between the vietnamese  and chinese it runs deep there's a lot  of real animosity there  guess who else the vietnamese hate the  americans i mean so you know you're  trying to entice the vietnamese into  supporting this in the name of this very  vague notion  you know free trade in the south pacific  meaning  uh trade with america well that is  simply not very convincing uh a case so  yeah it's strange i think that joe biden  oh i can argue against miss but i'll  read your comments in a second guys if  you want to make a comment now if you  want to give it a thumbs up now it's a  good time um i will argue against my  position and say the sense in which joe  biden is right but obviously my first  and most fundamental reaction to this is  to look at the extent to which the ways  in which joe biden is is  um as i say both morally and  strategically this seems to me a step in  the wrong direction i think i think he's  undermining um  what were maybe some of the good ideas  uh that were unveiled in the first few  months of his presidency  no mention of saudi arabia i could just  check how does saudi arabia fit into  this one of the most powerful countries  in the world no mention of iran i'll  just search i think iran might get a  brief mention in there as being part of  the problem let me just check  no so the whole document no mention of  saudi arabia no mention of iran  um  [Music]  you know the name of thailand appears  three times by contrast not at all  mentioned saudi arabia and a single  mention of iran  you know of course those matter you know  i know but you know but iran matters i'm  sorry but specifically trade trade  between iran and everyone in this part  of the world matters but you know no  iran i mean  sorry  in this okay let me just say this  from donald trump's perspective  iran is more important in the asian  policy than china  you know and  you know from an american perspective  how much more important is china than  iran you know they're both major major  foreign policy priorities or concerns  and you know certainly also you know i  think it's conspicuous to what extent is  north korea  just uh  ignored you know  um  i will i will quote you what it says  about north korea  [Laughter]  isn't this cynical it's not well written  by the way the quality of writing is  poor quote the covet 19 pandemic  continues to inflict a painful human and  economic toll across the region  the democratic people's republic of  korea dprk  that means north korea that means  communist north korea  continues to expand its illicit nuclear  weapons and missile programs  indo-pacific governments grapple with  natural disasters resource scarcity  internal conflict governance challenges  so dprk north korea has just mentioned  here  in passing as one of the problems in the  region we then have later this is page  13 same page i was quoting earlier quote  as the dprk continues to develop  destabilizing nuclear and missile  programs we will continue to seek  sustained and serious dialogue with the  goal of the complete denuclearization of  the korean peninsula and addressing its  ongoing human rights violations and  improving the lives and livelihoods of  the north korean people  at the same time we are strengthening  extended deterrence and coordination  with south korea rok  and japan to respond to north korean  uh provocations remaining prepared to  deter and if necessary defeat any agree  any aggression towards the united states  and our allies while  bolstering counter proliferation efforts  throughout the region  so  you have a shrinking  of the north korean problem to being  nuclear missiles  the problem with north korea is  democracy with the lack of demand right  like you know why not say that why not  say  we support taiwan because it's a  democracy we support japan because of  democracy in the future we want north  korea to be a democracy just like japan  just like taiwan like that's that's your  agenda why do you pretend that your role  is purely this crisis management  defensive role of saying well we're  going to manage  the hostility of the dprk of north korea  you know so yeah i think that's a  fundamentally covered thing what do you  say i just find it interesting that they  say they will work with a wide set of  actors including all the vessels  and manage crisis  okay  a good one  let's add that  no you're right it's it's a great quote  to lift  again page 13  while reinforcing extended deterrence  against nuclear and ballistic missile  systems and other emerging threats to  strategic stability the united states  will seek to work with a wide set of  actors  including our rivals to prevent and  manage crises so the  myth  being prevented the lie being prevented  to you is that now in 2022 america is  going to be able to cooperate with  russia  and america is going to be able to  cooperate with china  to suppress  north korean belligerence  that's not true  you [ __ ] kidding me  kidding me  sorry but you know mail that to 1995 i  mean it was true at one point you know  if you go back far enough that was true  that russia china and america were all  on the same side and managing the  insanity of the north korean  dictatorship but today  yeah this is this is a fantasy  and it's also again it's strategically  inept it's also just totally immoral now  this is not back in the old days these  called the five-party talks right i  think so the five parties were china  america  uh russia  south korea north korea five-party talks  those those days are gone  okay so quote from alec in the audience  alex a long time viewer of the channel  quote i guess they can say they think  china and taiwan should eventually be  one country but not until both sides are  democracies question mark  they could say that  they never say that  now alec  what if i repeat your statement and i  replace the word taiwan with hong kong  hong kong used to be a democracy china  snuffed out democracy in hong kong  to some extent gradually to some extent  suddenly over recent years you know if  you've been reading the news in the last  10 20 years you will have heard about  this process  uh as i said i was in hong kong when  they had just had the handover  ceremonies so many years ago when i was  when i was a boy  um  anyway i saw the fireworks on the ground  the ashes of the fireworks was still on  the ground from the handover ceremonies  when i was there i wasn't there for the  the festivities it was there right after  the handover ceremony said taking place  when hong kong became part of chinese uh  jurisdiction um  what if you were instead saying that  china and hong kong should eventually be  one country but not not until both are  democracies that would be a very  powerful statement for america to make  you could make that  an american federal law or a policy or  you could state it in the treaty you  could write a treaty with taiwan say  look we we support you eventually  becoming part of china but only this  but guys it's [ __ ] and this is 2022.  it would ho here's a different  perspective alex sorry i'm not saying  this to assault insult you i'm just  here's a contrasting perspective what if  america's policy was that really  taiwan and japan  should be part of the same country that  there should be a federal government  uniting the democracies of east asia  japan  taiwan  samoa  throwing a few of the pacific islands  should have a pacific democratic  federal union  for their mutual defense and economic  benefit that you should have an eu  of  each specific south pacific  tonga  not enough people talk about the  politics of tonga you know for real  you know obviously you know australia  could be part of it or australia could  be it could be out of it be an  interesting question but you know  why why would you want taiwan to be part  of the same country as communist china  instead it could be in the past it was  it could be part of a union of some kind  with japan that'd be better for everyone  by the way i actually almost broke down  weeping when i saw this in taiwan i was  alone at that time i just i just mean  physically melissa wasn't standing there  with me but i remember i was walking  down the street there  so i'd have to really remember when this  was and there was this small  office set into a wall and so in taiwan  anything can be a political party that's  true in many countries but many  political movements in taiwan register  as a political party i'd assume their  tax benefits or something i don't know  that but you know so instead of just  being like in america there might be a  pac there might be a political action  committee there might be registered  they'll actually register as a party but  there was this political organization  and it was this organization and what  they were arguing for  was honesty about the fact that what is  in taiwan's interest is to embrace the  united states of america and embrace  japan  to say openly the situation of taiwan is  that we are in an alliance with america  and japan not china and evidently it was  founded by military veterans um you know  again i was there i was literally  reading their propaganda i was staying  there looking at and they they put  openly they had the flag of taiwan the  flag of japan to fly the united states  together and said like  something like we are we are brothers or  we are one brother like we have to  recognize this is our current situation  and this is what is in our interest like  and it was a real argument because it  was saying stop hating america stop  hating japan and within taiwan there's a  lot of there's a lot of hatred against  both i remember sorry i'd say i almost  wept because it was very moving to see  what they were saying and you know what  i'm just someone who's very involved in  politics and it really was saying let's  get rid of all this propaganda let's get  rid of all these lies let's work with  the reality situation as it is  so you know um  [Music]  i i just don't see i just don't see any  sense to the one china policy whatsoever  in the year 2022. we can debate did it  make sense in 1955 or 1965  uh probably i would i would say no to  that also but certainly today i mean  regardless whether or not if we did the  research and thought about it  hypothetically what would your position  be in 1965  different question but today  no there's there's just no there's just  no point um in talking about a a one  china policy for taiwan um  even though i know i mean i've lived  with the culture enough i feel the  the gravitas that chineseness has uh for  the taiwanese people and you know i feel  also the intensity of their emotions  about japan uh which are truly  ambivalent you know they have they feel  a powerful sense of attraction toward  japan and they also feel repulsion  there's both  okay uh irrelevant question but  perfectly the reason why someone asked  my opinion on the drug war i've done so  many videos on that  sorry i i just don't want to search now  and get you the link but i have done  many videos talking about drug policy in  america in europe  even in asia actually talking about um  illegal drugs and and what political  policy should be so i have made many  many videos talking about that at length  and in depth if you look around for them  on the channel  okay so guys um i end the video by  returning to some of the major late  motifs in brief you know um  i made this two-minute long video on the  channel if you didn't see it before i'd  encourage you to see it for the first  time  and  [Laughter]  i'll stick with that error  i'd encourage you to see it now whether  you're seeing it for the first time or  whether you're seeing it uh for the  second time and think about the very  simple message that i'm that i'm putting  across here  um  [Music]  wouldn't the world be a different place  if the united states of america could  say  we have democracy and you don't  wouldn't the world be a different place  if the united states could say hey right  or wrong  we started the invasion of afghanistan  because the american people voted in a  referendum they had some kind of direct  democracy some kind of decision-making  process they say look the american  people voted to begin the war in  afghanistan and then maybe five years  later or maybe 10 years later they had  another vote to end the war in  afghanistan we have democracy and this  is how decisions are made in the united  states of america that's not the  situation america is in okay the reality  is that while donald trump was president  of the united states the decision  to start a war or the decision to end a  war was entirely in the power of just  one man one man who had all the powers  of a king  for the period he was elected to serve  in office for four years call it an  electoral dictatorship or an electoral  monarchy and it was terrifying right  and we look across the ocean to russia  and we can only say sympathetically we  understand that you are in this  situation now too  the russian people did not have a  referendum they did not have a vote they  did not have any democracy about whether  or not to invade the ukraine or whatever  is going to happen next they have no  power for what happened in the past and  what happened next so it's really sort  of sad  the extent to which there is a  mirror-like  similarity  between the  semi-democracy of the united states  and the pseudo-democracy  of china  and the deeply corrupt  democracy of russia because they do have  some elections they do have some  voting they do have some capacity for  the newspapers to criticize the people  in power some not enough  but they have some and as i say this is  even true when you look at iran iran and  egypt to give examples those are  countries that have some democracy when  you look into it it's interesting to  kind of evaluate how much or how how  little democracy uh there is  now again that video  it's only two minutes long  it very briefly indicates to you that  the last time this this issue was taken  seriously  the issue of whether or not americans  should directly vote in referendums to  decide the beginnings and endings of  wars whether or not the  you know  the most fateful decisions in foreign  policy should be decided through direct  democracy it was the period  from world war one through to the  beginning  of world war ii  and i think it's fair to say  that americans were  terrified by the possibility  that there were enough  nazis  within the united states of america  that america would not have entered  world war ii if you had this kind of  direct democracy that's a  complete fiction it's a complete  delusion  uh  you know as  year after year went by with adolf  hitler leading up to start of world war  ii i mean long before you know hitler  invades  uh the czech republic  you know  american sympathy for  american tolerance for  and the american willingness to placate  uh hitler  it was going down and down i think it's  true if you look at polls kind of the  day hitler when hitler is just first  coming into power i think there there  were at that time americans who said  look they still could remember world war  one and they just don't want to get  involved in another war in europe um to  call this pacifism is misleading to call  it isolationism is misleading  i think there is no truth at all to the  notion that americans would not have  voted to go to war  even once that war involved the czech  republic  but certainly once the war involved  england france etc of course of course  americans would have voted to to enter  into world war ii so i think that is  ridiculous however i think that really  is the ghost haunting american politics  is the awareness because there were i  mean  america  is a country predominantly of immigrants  a tiny percentage of the country as the  indigenous people  and if you were living in manhattan at  that time you would have really seen  that there were a lot of italians  and those italians  still had sympathies for and supported  to some extent mussolini in italy right  this is very palpable that there were  nazis and there were fascists to some  extent there were spaniards and possibly  hispanic people from south america too  who sympathized or supported fascism in  spain and there were also a lot of  people who opposed fascism in spain and  supported democracy in spain or  anarchism in spain or communism in spain  it's a very divisive civil war the  spanish civil war but nevertheless spain  fascism in spain there were these strong  feelings i i can i can really understand  that people living through that time  may have had an exaggerated awareness  of the minority of americans who were  vocally pro-fascists in general again  whether that's italy or spain  and of the minority of americans who  were specifically pro-german  uh pro-nazi willing to i i get that i  think that has  shocked america for 50 years  into refusing to think seriously about  the role of democracy in questions of of  war and peace questions of alliances and  questions of actual invasion  but i can tell you about a whole bunch  of wars that never would have happened  if you just had this amendment to the  constitution so that people would vote  in a referendum before invading another  country before occupying another country  before beginning outright war okay  and there are even more wars that would  have ended earlier that wouldn't have  gone on for 20 years that would have  ended earlier even if americans would  have voted to start it they would have  also after five years or something voted  to stop it say okay enough already  america  invaded  conquered and ruled haiti  why  nobody in america today can tell you why  america's history of military incursions  into haiti  no one can explain  now conversely sorry just to give an  example that's  juxtaposed look at cuba very next door  why hasn't america invaded cuba why  hasn't america got rid of communism in  cuba and created democracy there like  both both examples are observed  like the fact that america did conquer  haiti and the fact america didn't  conquer  cuba i mean still today right now in  2022 how about a war to liberate cuba  you know why not if you voted for it  what percentage of americans would  support that  the american  conquest  of the philippines  why who in america would have voted for  that most absurd totally immoral war  totally pointless nothing to win  everything to lose  why did america conquer the philippines  what was the point and you know it may  well be like if you get into reading the  private letters of politicians at the  time there could have been american  politicians who wanted the philippines  to become a permanent part of the united  states the way hawaii has  why did america conquer and annex hawaii  in that case it was more annexation than  conquest  i i'm i'm being  transparent here america did not conquer  hawaii in the same sense that america  conquered haiti in the same sense  america conquered uh the philippines  it's not a fair comparison nevertheless  the annexation of hawaii eventually  leading to the statehood of hawaii  who in their right mind  would have voted for that and if you  think that didn't matter if you think  that didn't have political consequences  for example in world war ii it  really did it really matters it's not a  minor footnote in this united states  america these are questions americans  could have voted on directly and imagine  how much safer you would have felt  during the presidency of donald trump  if you knew  that he could not start a war with iran  without first putting it to a plebiscite  without first putting it to a referendum  without first having  a direct vote  so  more democracy within the united states  of america it will not in a simplistic  sense mean world peace it won't  okay  it will mean  escalating levels of political education  within the united states escalating  levels of political engagement and it  will mean more mobilization of people  more motivation for people to know and  understand and care about the wars that  you have and i think it will result in  americans fighting different wars